Why I Leave No Trace

More accurately, this is about why I am learning to leave no trace. I volunteered for this Earth Guardian thing thinking I can pick stuff up and help make the place better. Then I started reading the stuff given me by Wrinn, my Area Facilitator.

Apparently, I suck and I'm bad at it. I have much to learn.

Honestly, I don't care much about the planet. The planet will not miss me when I am gone. I have no children and am not likely to. The thought of human extinction warms the cockles of my withered little heart. Really, I watch the news and cannot wait for global thermonuclear zombie apocalypse. But I take exception to poison in my water and air. I take exception to trash in my wild spaces. I even take exception to being a poisoning trash heaver.

When I poison my environment, I poison myself. So the whole idea of reducing my use of resources just makes sense. Anything I don't use doesn't create that much crap for me to breathe and drink.

Leaving no trace is a purely selfish act.

I try to reuse my paper waste. I do it because I am a cheap skate. I use my junk mail for papier-mâché. It's free. It's easy. I like my life that way. It just so happens that being a lazy skin-flint bastard is good for the planet.

I drive a hybrid. While I do care about emissions (in my own lungs). I care more about the price of gas. Over the course of my little car's lifetime, I will save enough in gas costs to buy another car.

The sauces I buy at my local market come in sturdy plastic tubs. These things will outlast the sun and they seal well enough to carry soup without leaking. These supposedly disposable items are eminently reusable. Why spend money on other plastic containers when these come with my favorite pickled ginger?

Our grandparents knew all this. OK, maybe your great grandparents, 'cuz I'm really old. They grew up during the First Great Depression. They learned to save and reuse everything.

We're still digging out of the Second Great Depression. After much experimentation, I found just the right medication.

When the economy dives into a sewer, we learn to make do. We get more creative. By my grandma's standards, I am an amateur. That woman could make a dime stretch for six years, bless her little banker's heart.

I am not a vegetarian. The entire planet's food cycle is based upon torturing something cute and fuzzy and eating it while it's still alive and squealing in pain. If not that, then the poor thing is swallowed whole and drowns in stomach acid.  Go Google "praying mantis" or "parasites in humans." Nature is a vicious bitch.

Rather than follow the example of these hideous beasts, I pack a vegetarian lunch. It's cheaper than meat and it keeps longer. Better still, it lowers my cholesterol. Anything to make Doc stop bitching and me stop buying these damned expensive pills.

I love to eat meat. I love to save money. So less meat means more money in my pocket. The smaller personal footprint on resources is a bonus.

As I plan my meals for next Flip, I'm thinking about what will keep longest unrefrigerated or taste good after freezing solid. Sure, on Friday I'll be eating something cute and fuzzy that once nuzzled its young with human-like affection. Sunday, I'm looking forward the the best lintels on a bed of red rice you are ever likely to taste. It's inexpensive, it keeps, and it's yummy.

Foam coolers are cheap and easily damaged. I hate them. Nevertheless, I own one. If I cover it with a layer of duct tape then it will last longer and I won't have to buy another one. Better still, next time I need one, I'll get something that will last longer. It will cost more in the short term but will last longer than a dozen foam coolers.

I do all this because I am selfish. I like my living space free of detritus. I like my lungs and arteries free of clog. I like my wallet full of money.

I do it because I don't actually leave no trace. Not yet. I leave less than I used to and more than I will next time.
